CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to GTK Signage

First, thank you for contributing! 

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents) for different ways to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved.

> If you like the project, but just don't have time to contribute code or docs, there are other easy ways to support the project and show your appreciation:
> - Star the project
> - Tweet about it
> - Mention this project in your project's readme
> - Mention the project at local meetups
> - Tell your friends/colleagues

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [I Have a Question](#i-have-a-question)
- [I Want To Contribute](#i-want-to-contribute)
- [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
- [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
- [Your First Code Contribution](#your-first-code-contribution)
- [Improving The Documentation](#improving-the-documentation)
- [Styleguides](#styleguides)
- [Commit Messages](#commit-messages)
- [Join The Project Team](#join-the-project-team)


## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the
[GTK Signage Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to the project maintainer via the [GTK Signage GitHub repository](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage).

## I Have a Question

> Before you ask a question, make sure you've read the [README](README.md) and any other available documentation.

Also, search for existing [Issues](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues) that might help you. In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, write your question in that issue. If it's an old issue, or only partially relevant to your question, then start a new issue.

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues/new).
- Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
- If you've found a bug, please include a summary, reproduction steps, your expected behavior, the actual behavior, relevant code (minimal examples appreciated), stack trace, and any other notes, screenshots, videos that could help.
- Provide project and platform versions (e.g. database version, .NET version, operating system, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

I'll get to issues as soon as I can, but I can't guarantee any response time.

## I Want To Contribute

> ### Legal Notice 
> When contributing to this project, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

If you are contributing a bug fix, just go on ahead and submit a PR and I'll review it as soon as I can. Please submit at least one automated test to demonstrate the bug as well.

If you want to contribute a new feature, formatting, code refactoring, or any other non-trivial changes, please first create an issue and discuss it.

If you want to contribute documentation, bless you. Right now it's just a README file, but any documentation contributions are welcome. If it's a small change/recommendation, just go ahead and submit a PR. If it's a larger or more significant change, please open an issue first to discuss it.

## Styleguides

Follow [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style guidelines for Python code. You can use tools like `flake8` or `pylint` to check your code for PEP 8 compliance.

Also, when in doubt, favor verbosity over terseness, especially for readability sake.

**Example**:

I'd prefer:
```python
is_approved = condition_1 or condition_2
if is_approved:
    # whatever
```
over:
```python
if condition_1 or condition_2:
    # whatever
```
The latter is terse, but the former is more readable and more self-documenting.

In general, stick to Python's [Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/) principles, but deviation is okay, especially if you make a thoughtful case.

### Commit Messages

Write a decent commit message that would help you better understand the commit as if you were reading it 6 months from now. Use generative AI if you have to. If your commit is related to an issue, make sure to use the issue number in the commit message. 

Good Examples:
- `#14 fixing display bug in ui.py`
- `I refactored the slide loading algorithm #18`

Bad Examples:
- `fixed bug`
- `committing slideshow.py and display.py`

## Attribution
This guide is based on the **contributing.md**. [Make your own](https://contributing.md/)!

Commit message:

switching to logging instead of print, some style guide stuff (Junie)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to GTK Signage

First, thank you for contributing! 

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents) for different ways to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved.

> If you like the project, but just don't have time to contribute code or docs, there are other easy ways to support the project and show your appreciation:
> - Star the project
> - Tweet about it
> - Mention this project in your project's readme
> - Mention the project at local meetups
> - Tell your friends/colleagues

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [I Have a Question](#i-have-a-question)
- [I Want To Contribute](#i-want-to-contribute)
- [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
- [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
- [Your First Code Contribution](#your-first-code-contribution)
- [Improving The Documentation](#improving-the-documentation)
- [Styleguides](#styleguides)
- [Commit Messages](#commit-messages)
- [Join The Project Team](#join-the-project-team)


## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the
[GTK Signage Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to the project maintainer via the [GTK Signage GitHub repository](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage).

## I Have a Question

> Before you ask a question, make sure you've read the [README](README.md) and any other available documentation.

Also, search for existing [Issues](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues) that might help you. In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, write your question in that issue. If it's an old issue, or only partially relevant to your question, then start a new issue.

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues/new).
- Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
- If you've found a bug, please include a summary, reproduction steps, your expected behavior, the actual behavior, relevant code (minimal examples appreciated), stack trace, and any other notes, screenshots, videos that could help.
- Provide project and platform versions (e.g. database version, .NET version, operating system, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

I'll get to issues as soon as I can, but I can't guarantee any response time.

## I Want To Contribute

> ### Legal Notice 
> When contributing to this project, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

If you are contributing a bug fix, just go on ahead and submit a PR and I'll review it as soon as I can. Please submit at least one automated test to demonstrate the bug as well.

If you want to contribute a new feature, formatting, code refactoring, or any other non-trivial changes, please first create an issue and discuss it.

If you want to contribute documentation, bless you. Right now it's just a README file, but any documentation contributions are welcome. If it's a small change/recommendation, just go ahead and submit a PR. If it's a larger or more significant change, please open an issue first to discuss it.

## Styleguides

This project follows a detailed style guide available in [style_guide.md](style_guide.md). Please review this document before contributing code.

The style guide is based on [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) with some project-specific conventions. Key points include:

- Organize imports into three groups: standard library, third-party, and local application
- Use proper docstrings for all modules, classes, and functions
- Use logging instead of print statements
- Be specific about exception handling
- Favor readability over terseness

You can use tools like `flake8` or `pylint` to check your code for PEP 8 compliance.

**Example of favoring readability**:

Preferred:
```python
is_approved = condition_1 or condition_2
if is_approved:
    # do something
```

Instead of:
```python
if condition_1 or condition_2:
    # do something
```
The latter is terse, but the former is more readable and more self-documenting.

In general, stick to Python's [Zen of Python](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/) principles, but deviation is okay, especially if you make a thoughtful case.

### Commit Messages

Write a decent commit message that would help you better understand the commit as if you were reading it 6 months from now. Use generative AI if you have to. If your commit is related to an issue, make sure to use the issue number in the commit message. 

Good Examples:
- `#14 fixing display bug in ui.py`
- `I refactored the slide loading algorithm #18`

Bad Examples:
- `fixed bug`
- `committing slideshow.py and display.py`

## Attribution
This guide is based on the **contributing.md**. [Make your own](https://contributing.md/)!
