README.md, before:

# GTK Signage

A lightweight digital signage system combining a GTK-based fullscreen display with a Flask-powered admin interface. Ideal for Raspberry Pi setups powering menu boards, information kiosks, or in-store promos.

> ⚠️ **Designed specifically for Raspberry Pi using Debian Bookworm Lite.** The install script assumes `systemd`, installs `matchbox-window-manager`, and configures auto-login and X11 startup.

## Features

- **Web Admin Interface**: Add, edit, delete slides via browser
- **Flexible Display**: Show web pages or uploaded images
- **Scheduling Support**: Control slide visibility with start/end timestamps
- **Secure Access**: Password-protected admin login with hashed credentials
- **Local Caching**: Saves web content (HTML, JS, images, CSS) to survive internet outages
- **Single Process Display**: Minimal overhead, fullscreen GTK WebView
- **Auto-Start on Boot**: X11 display launches automatically after login using `matchbox-window-manager`
- **HTTPS Support**: Optional self-signed SSL certs for admin
- **Easy Install Script**: Sets up everything on Raspberry Pi or other Linux systems
- **CEC**: For hardware with HDMI CEC support, to schedule and manually turn off/on display devices.

## Requirements

### System Requirements
- Raspberry Pi with Debian Bookworm Lite (or similar Linux with `systemd`)
- Python 3
- GTK 3 + WebKit2
- X11 with `matchbox-window-manager`

### Python Dependencies
- Flask, Flask-WTF
- Jinja2  
- python-dotenv  
- requests  
- beautifulsoup4  
- filelock  

## Installation

### Automatic Installation (Recommended)

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/refs/heads/prod/install.sh)
```

The installation script will:
1. Install required system dependencies
2. Clone the repository to `/opt/gtk-signage`
3. Prompt for admin username and password
4. Configure .env variables (Flask host and port, passwords, settings)
5. Optionally enable HTTPS with self-signed certificates
6. Set up a systemd service to run at boot

### Automatic Update

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/refs/heads/prod/update.sh)
```

The update script will pull the latest code / dependencies and prompt for a reboot.

Notice these scripts refer to 'prod' branch. Consider that to be 'release'. I.e. any updates to that branch will be pulled in the next update.

## Usage

### Accessing the Admin Interface

After installation, the admin interface is available at:
- HTTP: `http://<your-ip>:<port>/admin`
- HTTPS (if enabled): `https://<your-ip>:<port>/admin`

Log in with the username and password you provided during installation.

### Managing Slides

1. **Adding Slides**:
   - Click "Add Slide" in the admin interface
   - Enter a URL or upload a local image
   - Set the duration (in seconds)
   - Optionally set start and end times (leave both blank to always display)
   - Click "Save"

2. **Editing Slides**:
   - Click "Edit" next to the slide you want to modify
   - Update the slide properties
   - Click "Save"

3. **Deleting Slides**:
   - Click "Delete" next to the slide you want to remove
   - Confirm the deletion

### Slide Properties

- **Source**: URL or upload image file
- **Duration**: How long to display the slide (in seconds)
- **Start Time**: When the slide should start being displayed (optional)
- **End Time**: When the slide should stop being displayed (optional)
- **Hide**: Manually hide a slide without deleting it

## Configuration

GTK Signage is configured through environment variables, which can be set in the `.env` file:

- `ADMIN_USERNAME`: Username for the admin interface
- `ADMIN_PASSWORD`: Password for the admin interface
- `FLASK_SECRET_KEY`: Secret key for Flask sessions (default: automatically generated by install)
- `FLASK_HOST`: Host to bind the Flask server (default: 0.0.0.0)
- `FLASK_PORT`: Port for the Flask server (default: 6969)
- `USE_SSL`: Enable HTTPS (true/false)
- `CACHE_DIR`: Subfolder to store cached web content (default: 'cache')
- `CACHE_EXPIRY_HOURS`: How many hours to keep cache content (default: 48)
- `CEC_ENABLE`: Enable CEC scheduling (turning display devices on/off automatically)
- `CEC_START`: Time to turn on device with CEC (e.g. 10:45)
- `CEC_END`: Time to turn off device with CEC (e.g. 21:45)

## Data Storage

Slides are stored in a JSON file (`slides.json`) in the following format:

```json
[
    {
        "source": "https://example.com/slide1",
        "duration": 10,
        "start": "2023-01-01T00:00:00",
        "end": "2023-12-31T23:59:59",
        "hide": false
    },
    { ... etc ... }
]
```

## License

GTK Signage is available under a dual licensing model:

- **Free for small businesses** operating in 1-2 physical locations (e.g. 1 or 2 ice cream shop buildings)
- **Commercial license required** for businesses with 3+ locations

For complete license terms and conditions, see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md).

## Support

GTK Signage offers different support options depending on your license:

- **Free Support**: Available through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues). No Service Level Agreement (SLA) is guaranteed for free support.
- **Commercial Support**: Users with commercial licenses may receive support with an SLA. Contact `info@grovesmanagementllc.com` for details.

### Contributing

Pull requests are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to GTK Signage, please see our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

### Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: Why did you create this?**  
A: I use digital signage in my ice cream store. I'm not satisfied with the options out there. They are too expensive, don't have any local caching, not reliable enough, too expensive, etc.

**Q: Why Python?**  
A: I don't like Python! But, GTK seemed like the way to go with displaying content, and since I couldn't make that work with .NET, I decided Python was the way to go.

**Q: Why not use Chromium kiosk mode?**
A: I think my system provides a much more manageable interface and platform, and doesn't rely on chromium, which can be quite a heavy process. GTK WebView only relies on WebKit.

**Q: Why did you do (weird thing in Python)?**
A: I'm not a Python developer. This was mostly developed with AI coding assistants. I'm open to suggestions, and please don't assume I know beans about Python, Python ecosystem, or Python idioms.

**Q: How do I ssh into the Raspberry Pi after install? I get a message "Only console users are allowed to run the X server"**
A: `ssh -t username@host "bash --noprofile --norc"` should do it.

**Q: What if I'm a crazy person and want to develop this using WSL/Windows?**
A: You will need to use some/all of these commands when running in WSL. Don't expect this to be supported, these are really just notes for my crazy self.
```
conda deactivate
export CEC_FAKE=true
export DISPLAY=$(grep -oP '(?<=nameserver\s)([0-9\.]+)' /etc/resolv.conf):0
export LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT=1
```

Commit message:

don't need systemd logging anymore

README.md, after:

# GTK Signage

A lightweight digital signage system combining a GTK-based fullscreen display with a Flask-powered admin interface. Ideal for Raspberry Pi setups powering menu boards, information kiosks, or in-store promos.

> ⚠️ **Designed specifically for Raspberry Pi using Debian Bookworm Lite.** The install script assumes `systemd`, installs `matchbox-window-manager`, and configures auto-login and X11 startup.

## Features

- **Web Admin Interface**: Add, edit, delete slides via browser
- **Flexible Display**: Show web pages or uploaded images
- **Scheduling Support**: Control slide visibility with start/end timestamps
- **Secure Access**: Password-protected admin login with hashed credentials
- **Local Caching**: Saves web content (HTML, JS, images, CSS) to survive internet outages
- **Single Process Display**: Minimal overhead, fullscreen GTK WebView
- **Auto-Start on Boot**: X11 display launches automatically after login using `matchbox-window-manager`
- **HTTPS Support**: Optional self-signed SSL certs for admin
- **Easy Install Script**: Sets up everything on Raspberry Pi or other Linux systems
- **CEC**: For hardware with HDMI CEC support, to schedule and manually turn off/on display devices.

## Requirements

### System Requirements
- Raspberry Pi with Debian Bookworm Lite
- Python 3
- GTK 3 + WebKit2
- X11 with `matchbox-window-manager`

### Python Dependencies
- Flask, Flask-WTF
- Jinja2  
- python-dotenv  
- requests  
- beautifulsoup4  
- filelock  

## Installation

### Automatic Installation (Recommended)

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/refs/heads/prod/install.sh)
```

The installation script will:

1. Installs system dependencies (GTK, Python, X11, CEC, etc.).
2. Clones the GtkSignage repo to /opt/gtk-signage (if not already there).
3. Sets up a virtual environment and installs required Python packages.
4. Prompts for setup options, including admin login, Flask settings, and optional HDMI-CEC schedule.
5. Generates a .env config file with secrets and environment variables.
6. Configures auto-start using .xinitrc and .bash_profile to launch on login.
7. Sets Raspberry Pi to boot to console with autologin and offers to reboot.

### Automatic Update

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/refs/heads/prod/update.sh)
```

The update script will pull the latest code / dependencies and prompt for a reboot.

Notice these scripts refer to 'prod' branch. Consider that to be 'release'. I.e. any updates to that branch will be pulled in the next update.

The update script will:

1. Installs required system packages in case anything is missing or changed.
2. Pulls the latest code from the prod branch of the GitHub repo.
3. Verifies and activates the virtual environment.
4. Reinstalls or updates Python dependencies from requirements.txt.
5. Skips setup prompts — preserves existing .env and config files.
6. Offers to reboot to apply updates immediately.

## Usage

### Accessing the Admin Interface

After installation, the admin interface is available at:
- HTTP: `http://<your-ip>:<port>/admin`
- HTTPS (if enabled): `https://<your-ip>:<port>/admin`

Log in with the username and password you provided during installation.

### Managing Slides

1. **Adding Slides**:
   - Click "Add Slide" in the admin interface
   - Enter a URL or upload a local image
   - Set the duration (in seconds)
   - Optionally set start and end times (leave both blank to always display)
   - Click "Save"

2. **Editing Slides**:
   - Click "Edit" next to the slide you want to modify
   - Update the slide properties
   - Click "Save"

3. **Deleting Slides**:
   - Click "Delete" next to the slide you want to remove
   - Confirm the deletion

### Slide Properties

- **Source**: URL or upload image file
- **Duration**: How long to display the slide (in seconds)
- **Start Time**: When the slide should start being displayed (optional)
- **End Time**: When the slide should stop being displayed (optional)
- **Hide**: Manually hide a slide without deleting it

## Configuration

GTK Signage is configured through environment variables, which can be set in the `.env` file:

- `ADMIN_USERNAME`: Username for the admin interface
- `ADMIN_PASSWORD`: Password for the admin interface
- `FLASK_SECRET_KEY`: Secret key for Flask sessions (default: automatically generated by install)
- `FLASK_HOST`: Host to bind the Flask server (default: 0.0.0.0)
- `FLASK_PORT`: Port for the Flask server (default: 6969)
- `USE_SSL`: Enable HTTPS (true/false)
- `CACHE_DIR`: Subfolder to store cached web content (default: 'cache')
- `CACHE_EXPIRY_HOURS`: How many hours to keep cache content (default: 48)
- `CEC_ENABLE`: Enable CEC scheduling (turning display devices on/off automatically)
- `CEC_START`: Time to turn on device with CEC (e.g. 10:45)
- `CEC_END`: Time to turn off device with CEC (e.g. 21:45)

## Data Storage

Slides are stored in a JSON file (`slides.json`) in the following format:

```json
[
    {
        "source": "https://example.com/slide1",
        "duration": 10,
        "start": "2023-01-01T00:00:00",
        "end": "2023-12-31T23:59:59",
        "hide": false
    },
    { ... etc ... }
]
```

## License

GTK Signage is available under a dual licensing model:

- **Free for small businesses** operating in 1-2 physical locations (e.g. 1 or 2 ice cream shop buildings)
- **Commercial license required** for businesses with 3+ locations

For complete license terms and conditions, see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md).

## Support

GTK Signage offers different support options depending on your license:

- **Free Support**: Available through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/mgroves/GtkSignage/issues). No Service Level Agreement (SLA) is guaranteed for free support.
- **Commercial Support**: Users with commercial licenses may receive support with an SLA. Contact `info@grovesmanagementllc.com` for details.

### Contributing

Pull requests are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to GTK Signage, please see our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

### Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: Why did you create this?**  
A: I use digital signage in my ice cream store. I'm not satisfied with the options out there. They are too expensive, don't have any local caching, not reliable enough, too expensive, etc.

**Q: Why Python?**  
A: I don't like Python! But, GTK seemed like the way to go with displaying content, and since I couldn't make that work with .NET, I decided Python was the way to go.

**Q: Why not use Chromium kiosk mode?**
A: I think my system provides a much more manageable interface and platform, and doesn't rely on chromium, which can be quite a heavy process. GTK WebView only relies on WebKit.

**Q: Why did you do (weird thing in Python)?**
A: I'm not a Python developer. This was mostly developed with AI coding assistants. I'm open to suggestions, and please don't assume I know beans about Python, Python ecosystem, or Python idioms.

**Q: How do I ssh into the Raspberry Pi after install? I get a message "Only console users are allowed to run the X server"**
A: `ssh -t username@host "bash --noprofile --norc"` should do it.

**Q: What if I'm a crazy person and want to develop this using WSL/Windows?**
A: You will need to use some/all of these commands when running in WSL. Don't expect this to be supported, these are really just notes for my crazy self.
```
conda deactivate
export CEC_FAKE=true
export DISPLAY=$(grep -oP '(?<=nameserver\s)([0-9\.]+)' /etc/resolv.conf):0
export LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT=1
```
